## CIS4592: "UnIConnect"
Group 3's Capstone Project for Spring 2025

## Introduction
UnIConnect is a webapp to be used by students of universities in order to develop a more social life on campuses of their choice. The application allows a user to create an account, sign in, and either match with another student through card based swiping, similar to Tinder, and discover locations on and around campus with reviews and ratings from the student body, similar to Yelp.

## Installation
### For the front end
Ensuring that you are in the directory: UnIFront

With Node.JS and git bash terminal, ensure you have ran

`npm i`

and to run from the UnIFront directory
`npm run dev`

which will open the frontend on a localhost website with a port specified within the terminal. Vite defaults to 5173.

### For the back end
Ensuring that you are in the directory: UnIBack

With Node.JS and git bash terminal, ensure that these dependencies have been installed.

`npm i`

and then you can run from the UnIBack/src directory
`node server.js`


## File layout
The entire app is designated in the UnIFront and UnIBack directories, associating with the frontend (page views, functions, and routes) and the backend (database connections, data management, storage and retrieval), as well as the readme document (what you're reading currently.)

### UnIBack
UnIBack has authMiddleware.js and authService.js for general middleware that all of the backend can then call on. There is package.json and package-lock.json for easy npm installations.

Within src/ there is the server.js that runs the backend on a terminal, then jest.setup and jest.config.js to run the jest testing.

Within src/__tests__ are all the handmade tests for backend functionalities to be ran with the test features.

within src/config is our config.env, db.js, and app.js to mount the routes to url pages, include our authentication for our mongoDB and google maps api, anddirectly connects the backend to the database. A requests.log is made on running the application and any backend call is done to log when it happens, and the nature of them.

Within src/models, src/routes, src/services and src/controllers are the typical controller and model setup for an mvc application. The models define the certain data structures of the database, while services, routes, and controllers is how the functionality of each url and backend calls are defined, with various data motifications as the data returns from the database to the frontend.

within src/coverage is autogenerated to assist with showing test coverage.


### UnIFront
Within UnIFront/ there is the src folder, public folder various github items, package.json and a config, nothing too important to the development of the application

Within UnIFront/public, there are all of the video and photo assets that UnIConnect utilizes, in the format of .pngs and .mp4s.

Within UnIFront/src There is  main.jsx and index.css, as well as app.jsx and app.css (From hereon, assume if there is a .jsx in a directory, there will be an associated .css). These are the top level parts of our frontend, to allow us to define routes for the webpage, designate if they're interacting with a component, or general pagewide css changes.

Within UnIFront/src/assets, there is a react.svg that we forgot to delete, as most of our assets are held within /public.

Within UnIFront/src/components, there are 4 components, cardSwipe, navbar, protectedRoute, and userContext directories. These all individually develop useful addons to the page that are repeated, or require contexxt across the entire page, such as userContext.
Due to the nature of the swiping cards feature, and dynamically loading data, it was better to create it as a component and load the data into it, rather than have it all created within its respective page.
Navbar is all of the code and components and styling for the navbar feature of the website.
protectedRoute is a way we can, in UnIFront/src/app.jsx designate that a route is protected, meaning that a user has to be signed in in order to access it.
userContext is a way we utilize cookies and saving the user object for use accross the website, as react's built in session management was too limited for us to utilize.

Within UnIFront/src/pages, we have directories for /about, /connect, /customizeProfile, /discover, /login, /profile, and /register. These contain each pages respective jsx, css, and config.


## Documentation

### Security document
it is found in docs\Security Document

### Within the backend
The backend has a file structure that includes models, controllers, routes, and services that each serve a unique function. For each Schema in our database, we have a unique model, controller, route and service. Each one is defined here.

Model - Defines the objects to be held within the database

Services - Simply performs the incomming database request

Controller - Any data handling, business logic, and error management is done here

Routes - Defines routes that will be called to, primarily by the frontend, in order to carry out specific database and backend functions.



## Contributing
  - ### (How to run tests)
Ensure Jest is installed globally or within the UnIBack directory. Running npm i will not include it.

Ensuring that you are in the directory for UnIBack, there is a tests folder to cd into. Once in that directory, and ensuring that you have all the dependencies needed for the backend, running

`jest`

will run a series of Jest tests on the backend functionality.


To get coverage report: `npm run test --coverage`
To just run test suite: `jest`
To run jest with add. info: `jest --coverage --verbose`


  - ### (How To run the app)
Both the frontend and the backend must be running as described previously in installation. 

While in the UnIBack/src directory `node server.js` 

on a seperate terminal, whil in the UnIFront directory, `npm run dev`

These two commands will allow you to open http:localhost:5173, port 5173 is the port that vite defaults to, and if the port is in use, will find another open port to use.

## Get in Touch
  - (Github Issues)
  - (discord)

## Videos
#### Stage 1 video
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Uuvm0-8mchNEGIvj-00L9rnUPBlwSqaQ/view?usp=drive_link

#### Stage 2 video
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1vu06g2nwnnXnFnk6_yGcQGcXcsWDoOjm/view?usp=sharing